# ImageX
We can easily identify any image immediately after seeing it, but it is hard for the computer to do the same. The rapid growth in the availability of the Internet and smartphones have resulted in the increase in usage of social media in recent years. This increased usage has thereby resulted in the exponential growth of digital images which are available. Therefore, there must be a system that describe the image in human language and perform other actions on images. 
Automatically describing or performing actions on images using natural language is a fundamental and challenging task. With the advancement in computing power along with the availability of huge datasets, building models that can generate captions for an image has become possible. Although great development has been made in computer vision, tasks such as recognizing an object, action classification, image classification, attribute classification and scene recognition are possible but it is a relatively new task to let a computer describe an image that is forwarded to it in the form of a human-like sentence.

To make our image caption generator system, we will be merging CNN-RNN architectures. Feature extraction from images is done using CNN. We have used the pre-trained model Exception. The information received from CNN is then used by LSTM for generating a description of the image.
The objective of our project is to develop a web based interface for users to get the description of the image, get the text form image and convert the human image into cartoon.
